#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass elsarticle
\begin_preamble
\tnotetext[t1]{This document is a collaborative effort.}
\tnotetext[t2]{The second title footnote which is a longer
longer than the first one and with an intention to fill
in up more than one line while formatting.}
\author[rvt]{C.V.~Radhakrishnan\corref{cor1}\fnref{fn1}}
\ead{cvr@river-valley.com}

\author[rvt,focal]{K.~Bazargan\fnref{fn2}}
\ead{kaveh@river-valley.com}

\author[els]{S.~Pepping\corref{cor2}\fnref{fn1,fn3}}
\ead[url]{http://www.elsevier.com}
\cortext[cor1]{Corresponding author}
\cortext[cor2]{Principal corresponding author}
\fntext[fn1]{This is the specimen author footnote.}
\fntext[fn2]{Another author footnote, but a little more
longer.}
\fntext[fn3]{Yet another author footnote. Indeed, you can have
any number of author footnotes.}

\address[rvt]{River Valley Technologies, SJP Building,
Cotton Hills, Trivandrum, Kerala, India 695014}
\address[focal]{River Valley Technologies, 9, Browns Court,
Kennford, Exeter, United Kingdom}
\address[els]{Central Application Management,
Elsevier, Radarweg 29, 1043 NX\\
Amsterdam, Netherlands}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title

\lang american
Automatic Classification of Cancer Tumors using Image Annotations and Ontologies
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract

\lang american
Information about cancer stage in a patient is crucial when clinicians assess
 treatment progress.
 Determining cancer stage is a process that takes into account the description,
 location, characteristics and possible metastasis of cancerous tumors in
 a patient.
 It should follow classification standards, such as TNM Classification of
 Malignant Tumors.
 However, in clinical practice, the implementation of this process can be
 tedious and error-prone and create uncertainty.
 In order to alleviate these problems, we intend to assist radiologists
 by providing a second opinion in the evaluation of cancer stage in patients.
 For doing this, Semantic Web technologies, such as ontologies and reasoning,
 will be used to automatically classify cancer stages.
 This classification will use semantic annotations, made by radiologists
 (using the ePAD tool) and stored in the AIM format, and rules of an ontology
 representing the TNM standard.
 The whole process will be validated through a proof of concept with users
 from the Radiology Dept.
 of the Stanford University.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
nao sei que stou fazendo
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If the document class elsarticle is not available on your computer, you
 can download and install the system package texlive-publishers (Linux)
 or install the LATEX package elsarticle using the package manager of your
 TEX 5 installation, which is typically TEX Live or MikTEX.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
asda
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
asd
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
asdasdsadsad
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
asdasdsadasda
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
asdasdasdasdasd
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
dasdasdasdasdasd
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
