#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass abntex2
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{fncychap}
\makechapterstyle{icmc}{%
   % Secao secundaria (Section) Caixa baixa, Negrito
    \renewcommand*{\cftsectionfont}{\bfseries}
    % Secao terciaria (Subsection) Caixa baixa, Negrito, italico
    \renewcommand*{\cftsubsectionfont}{\itshape\bfseries}
    % Secao quaternaria (Subsubsection) Caixa baixa, italico
    \renewcommand*{\cftsubsubsectionfont}{\itshape}
    % Secao quinquenária (Subsubsubsection) Caixa baixa
    \renewcommand*{\cftparagraphfont}{\normalsize}

   % tamanhos de fontes de chapter e part	
   \ifthenelse{\equal{\ABNTEXisarticle}{true}}{%
     \setlength\beforechapskip{\baselineskip}
     \renewcommand{\chaptitlefont}{\ABNTEXsectionfont\ABNTEXsectionfontsize}
    }{%else
     \setlength{\beforechapskip}{0pt}
     \renewcommand{\ABNTEXchapterfontsize}{\LARGE}
    
    %\renewcommand{\ABNTEXchapterfont}{\sffamily\bfseries}  %alteração da fonte dos capítulos, seções e subseções
    \renewcommand{\chaptitlefont}    {\ABNTEXchapterfont\bfseries\ABNTEXchapterfontsize}
  

% impressao do numero do capitulo
  \renewcommand{\chapternamenum}{}
  
  % impressao do nome do capitulo
  \renewcommand{\printchaptername}{%
   %\chaptitlefont
   %\ifthenelse{\boolean{abntex@apendiceousecao}}{\appendixname}{\chaptername}%
  }
% impressao do titulo do capitulo
  \def\printchaptertitle##1{%
    
    \setboolean{ABNTEXupperchapter}{true}
    
    \ifthenelse{\boolean{abntex@innonumchapter}}{
        \vskip 0ex \hrulefill\chaptitlefont\bfseries\ABNTEXchapterupperifneeded{##1}
        \vskip -0.6ex\hfill\rule{.8\textwidth}{0.5pt} 
        \vskip -2.8ex\hfill\rule{.8\textwidth}{2pt}
        \vskip 1.5ex
    
    }{%
    % else
        {\hrulefill
        {\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1.5} %  1 is the default, change whatever you need
        \begin{tabular}{|c|}
            \rowcolor{black}\color{white}\normalsize\ABNTEXchapterfont
              \ifthenelse{\boolean{abntex@apendiceousecao}}{\MakeTextUppercase{\appendixname}}{\MakeTextUppercase{\chaptername}}  \\ 
            \vspace{-1.5ex}\\ %coloquei para aumentar o espaço entre o título e o número
            \resizebox{!}{1.1cm}{\ABNTEXchapterfont\thechapter}
            \\[2.5ex]
            \hline
        \end{tabular}}} \\
        \vskip 4.3ex \flushright\chaptitlefont\bfseries\ABNTEXchapterupperifneeded{##1} \\
        \vskip -0.6ex\hfill\rule{.8\textwidth}{0.5pt} \\
        \vskip -2.8ex\hfill\rule{.8\textwidth}{2pt}\\
        \vskip 1.5ex
}    
        
  }
       


 }

}
\chapterstyle{icmc}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 1
\tocdepth 1
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Information about cancer staging in a patient is crucial when clinicians
 assess treatment progress.
 Determining cancer stage is a process that takes into account the description,
 location, characteristics and possible metastasis of cancerous tumors in
 a patient.
 It should follow classification standards, such as the TNM Classification
 of Malignant Tumors.
 However, in clinical practice, the implementation of this process can be
 tedious, error-prone and create uncertainty.
 In order to alleviate these problems, we intend to assist radiologists
 by providing a second opinion in the evaluation of cancer stage in patients.
 For doing this, Semantic Web technologies, such as ontologies and reasoning,
 were used to automatically classify cancer stages.
 This classification used semantic annotations made by radiologists, using
 the ePAD tool, and stored using standard AIM format.
 A TNM based classifier prototype was created.
 It transforms AIM annotations in AIM4-O ontology individuals and, using
 axioms and rules (written in OWL-SWRL languages) representing the TNM standard,
 it automatically calculates patient's liver cancer stage.
 The AIM4-O ontology was developed, as part of this work, to represent AIM
 4 annotations in OWL.
 This TNM classifier was evaluated, using real patient's radiology reports,
 from the NCI's Genomic Data Commons (GDC), in term of precision and recall,
 with 84.3% and 74.4% respective results (when compared to the actual cancer
 stages from the reports).
 The whole process was validated with radiologists from the Radiology Dept.
 of the Stanford University.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Palavras Chave:
\series default
 
\emph on
OWL, SWRL
\emph default
,
\shape italic
 cancer staging
\shape default
, 
\emph on
ePAD,TNM.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
